Editorial review: Add docs for scroll snap events (#36057)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_scroll_snap/using_scroll_snap_events/index.md

### Handling one-dimensional scrollers

If you are dealing with a horizontal scroller, only the event object's `snapTargetInline` property will change as the snapped element changes if the content has a horizonal {{cssxref("writing-mode")}}, or the `snapTargetBlock` property if the content has a vertical `writing-mode`. Conversely, if you are dealing with a vertical scroller, only the `snapTargetBlock` property will change as the snapped element changes if the content has a horizonal `writing-mode`, or the `snapTargetInline` property if the content has a vertical `writing-mode`.

Let's look at an example snippet to show a typical one-dimensional scroll snap event handler function:

```js
scrollingElem.addEventListener("scrollsnapchange", (event) => {
  event.snapTargetBlock.className = "select-section";
});
```

> In this snippet, a `scrollsnapchange` handler function is set on a vertical scrolling container element that snap targets appear inside. When the event fires, we set a `select-section` class on the `snapTargetBlock` element, which could be used to style a newly-selected snap target to look like it has been selected (for example, with an animation).

Author: updated

### Handling two-dimensional scrollers

> If you are dealing with a horizontal _and_ vertical scroller, the code gets more complex because the `snapTargetBlock` property _or_ the `snapTargetInline` property could change, depending on which direction you scroll in and the `writing-mode` of the content:

Author: See above — the docs were confused, and the non-changing property is `null` in the case of a one-dimensional scroller. So I think this is a bit less confusing now. I don't think this change really helps, to be honest, so I've left it out.

> - If the scroller is scrolled horizontally, the `snapTargetInline` property will change as the snapped element changes if the content has a horizonal {{cssxref("writing-mode")}}, or the `snapTargetBlock` property if the content has a vertical `writing-mode`.

Author: wrong in four places ;-)

Good spot; I've fixed them all.

- If the scroller is scrolled vertically, the `snapTargetBlock` property will change as the snapped element changes if the content has a horizonal `writing-mode`, or the `snapTargetInline` property if the content has a vertical `writing-mode`.

To handle this, you will likely need to keep track of whether it was the `snapTargetBlock` or the `snapTargetInline` element that changed. Let's look at an example:

```js
const prevState = {
  snapTargetInline: "s1",
  snapTargetBlock: "s1",
};

scrollingElem.addEventListener("scrollsnapchange", (event) => {
  if (!(prevState.snapTargetBlock === event.snapTargetBlock.id)) {
    event.snapTargetBlock.className = "select-section";
  }

  if (!(prevState.snapTargetInline === event.snapTargetInline.id)) {

>     event.snapTargetInline.className = "select-section";

Author: I'd agree with that. Updated.

  transition: 0.5s ease;
}
```

The style changes mentioned above will be applied through classes applied to the `<section>` elements via JavaScript. The `select-section` class will be applied to signify a selection — this set a purple background and white text color. The `pending` class will be applied to signify a pending snap target selection — this colors the target selection's background a darker gray.

```css
.pending {
  background-color: #ccc;
}

.select-section {
  background: purple;
  color: white;
}
```

### JavaScript

In the JavaScript, we start by grabbing a reference to the `<main>` element and defining the number of `<section>` elements to generate (21), and a variable to begin counting from. We then use a [`while`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/while) loop to generate the `<section>` elements, giving each one an ID of `s` plus the current value of `n`, and a child [`h2`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/Heading_Elements) with text that reads `Section` plus the current value of `n`.

```js
const mainElem = document.querySelector("main");
const sectionCount = 21;
let n = 1;

while (n <= sectionCount) {
  mainElem.innerHTML += `

>     <section id="s${n}">

Author: Possibly not, but I don't think it really hurts anything either. And it is useful in some ways, e.g. when talking about the element with ID `s19`, rather than the element in the nineteenth position. I find this a bit easier to conceptualize.

>     <section id="s${n}">

Author: Yup, agreed — we are not tracking the elements at all in this example, so we don't need it. Removed.

  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;

  scroll-snap-align: center;
}

h2 {
  font-size: 1rem;
  letter-spacing: 1px;
}
```

The CSS for this example is similar to the CSS in the previous example. The most significant differences are as follows.

First let's look at the `<main>` element styling. We want the `<section>` elements to be laid out as a grid, so we use [CSS grid layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout) to specify that we want them displayed in seven columns, using a {{cssxref("grid-template-columns")}} value of `repeat(7, 1fr)`. We also specify the space around the `<section>` elements by setting `padding` and {{cssxref("gap")}} on the `<main>` element rather than `margin` on the `<section>` elements.

Finally, since we are scrolling in both directions in this example, we set {{cssxref("scroll-snap-type")}} to `both mandatory` so that snap targets in the block direction _and_ inline direction will always be snapped to.

```css
main {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(7, 1fr);
  padding: 100px;
  gap: 50px;
  overflow: scroll;
  border: 3px solid black;
  width: 350px;
  height: 350px;

  scroll-snap-type: both mandatory;
}
```

> Next, we are going to use CSS animations in this example instead of transtions. This results in more complex code, but enables more fine-grained control over the animations applied. We first define the classes that will be applied to signal that a snap target selection has been made or is pending. The `select-section` and `deselect-section` will be applied to signify a selection or deselection — these apply animations that animate from gray background and black (default) text color to purple background and white text color, and back again, respectively.

Author: OK, I've changed the example so that it applies a different animation for the deselection.

The `pending` class will be applied to signify a pending snap target selection, as in the previous example.

```css
.select-section {
  animation: select 0.6s ease forwards;
}

.deselect-section {
  animation: deselect 0.6s ease forwards;
}

@keyframes select {
  from {
    background: #eee;
    color: black;
  }

  to {
    background: purple;
    color: white;
  }
}

@keyframes deselect {
  from {
    background: purple;
    color: white;
  }

  to {
    background: #eee;
    color: black;
  }
}

.pending {
  background-color: #ccc;
}
```

### JavaScript

> In the JavaScript, we start off in the same way as with the previous example, except that this time we generate 49 `<section>` elements. With the grid layout we specified above, this gives us seven columns of seven `<section>`s.

Reviewer: add "and include an id" (since we remove it in the previous example)

Author: I've handled this a slightly different way, but yes, I'd made it clear that we also add an ID.

```js
mainElem.addEventListener("scrollsnapchanging", (event) => {
  const previousPending = document.querySelector(".pending");
  if (previousPending) {
    previousPending.className = "";
  }

  if (
    !(event.snapTargetBlock.className === "select-section") &&
    !(prevState.snapTargetBlock === event.snapTargetBlock.id)
  ) {
    event.snapTargetBlock.className = "pending";
  }

  if (
    !(event.snapTargetInline.className === "select-section") &&
    !(prevState.snapTargetInline === event.snapTargetInline.id)
  ) {
    event.snapTargetInline.className = "pending";
  }
});
```

### Result

Try scrolling horizontally and vertically around the scroll container and observing the behavior described above:

{{ EmbedLiveSample("Two-dimensional scroller example", "100%", "500") }}

## See also

> - [CSS scroll snap](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_scroll_snap) module

Reviewer: move the module link to after the feature defined in that module (order of links in see also is kind of the order of links in the module pages themselves, with the module coming last.... after guides, which come after features.

Author: Makes sense. done!

Let's look at an example that shows the two events in action (you'll see how this is built later on in the article):

{{ EmbedLiveSample("One-dimensional scroller example", "100%", "500") }}

Have a go at scrolling up and down the list of boxes:

- Try slowly scrolling the container up and down without releasing the scrolling gesture. For example, drag your finger(s) over the scrolling area on a touchscreen device or trackpad, or hold down the mouse button on the scroll bar and move the mouse. The boxes you move over should turn a darker gray color as you move over them, and then return to normal as you move away from them again. This is the `scrollsnapchanging` event in action.
- Now try releasing the scrolling gesture; the nearest box to your scrolling position should animate to a purple color, with white text. The animation occurs when the `scrollsnapchange` event fires.

> - Finally try scrolling fast, for example by flicking your finger hard on the screen, to scroll past several potential targets before starting to come to rest near a target further down the scroll container. You should only see one `scrollsnapchanging` event fire as the scrolling starts to slow, before the `scrollsnapchange` event fires and the selected snap target turns purple.

Author: updated

## The `SnapEvent` event object

Both of the above events share the {{domxref("SnapEvent")}} event object. This has two properties that are key to how scroll snap events work:

> - {{domxref("SnapEvent.snapTargetBlock", "snapTargetBlock")}} returns a reference to the element snapped to in the [block direction](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Flow_relative_values#block_direction) when the event fired, or `null` if no element is snapped to in the block direction (i.e. scroll snapping only occurs in the inline direction).

Author: Yeah, I think saying it this way round is easier to parse. Changed in all cases.

- {{domxref("SnapEvent.snapTargetInline", "snapTargetInline")}} returns a reference to the element snapped to in the [inline direction](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Flow_relative_values#inline_direction) when the event fired, or `null` if no element is snapped to in the inline direction (i.e. scroll snapping only occurs in the block direction).

These properties enable event handler functions to report the element that has been snapped to (in the case of `scrollsnapchange`) or the element that _would be snapped to_ if the scrolling gesture were to be finished now (in the case of `scrollsnapchanging`) — in one- and two-dimensions. You can then manipulate these elements in any way you want, for example by directly setting styles on them via their {{domxref("HTMLElement.style", "style")}} properties, setting classes on them that have styles defined for them in a stylesheet, etc.

### Handling one-dimensional scrollers

> If you are dealing with a horizontal scroller, only the event object's `snapTargetInline` property will change as the snapped element changes if the content has a horizontal {{cssxref("writing-mode")}}, or the `snapTargetBlock` property if the content has a vertical `writing-mode`. Conversely, if you are dealing with a vertical scroller, only the `snapTargetBlock` property will change as the snapped element changes if the content has a horizontal `writing-mode`, or the `snapTargetInline` property if the content has a vertical `writing-mode`. In each case, the non-changing property of the two returns `null`.

Author: I wasn't sure about this. We are talking about one-dimensional scrollers in this section. I've updated the two-dimensional scroller section to say that in that case, both properties return an element reference, and neither returns `null`, to provide a more obvious contrast.

> If you are dealing with a horizontal scroller, only the event object's `snapTargetInline` property will change as the snapped element changes if the content has a horizontal {{cssxref("writing-mode")}}, or the `snapTargetBlock` property if the content has a vertical `writing-mode`. Conversely, if you are dealing with a vertical scroller, only the `snapTargetBlock` property will change as the snapped element changes if the content has a horizontal `writing-mode`, or the `snapTargetInline` property if the content has a vertical `writing-mode`. In each case, the non-changing property of the two returns `null`.

Reviewer: sorry for leaving that in. I edited this before I realized that it has nothing to do with "one dimensional", but rather has to do with the property value of inline, block, or both.

> If you are dealing with a horizontal scroller, only the event object's `snapTargetInline` property will change as the snapped element changes if the content has a horizontal {{cssxref("writing-mode")}}, or the `snapTargetBlock` property if the content has a vertical `writing-mode`. Conversely, if you are dealing with a vertical scroller, only the `snapTargetBlock` property will change as the snapped element changes if the content has a horizontal `writing-mode`, or the `snapTargetInline` property if the content has a vertical `writing-mode`. In each case, the non-changing property of the two returns `null`.

Author: np!

    console.log(
      `The container was scrolled in the block direction to element ${event.snapTargetBlock.id}`,
    );
  }

  if (!(prevState.snapTargetInline === event.snapTargetInline.id)) {
    console.log(
      `The container was scrolled in the block direction to element ${event.snapTargetBlock.id}`,
    );
  }

  prevState.snapTargetBlock = event.snapTargetBlock.id;
  prevState.snapTargetInline = event.snapTargetInline.id;
});
```

In this snippet, we first define an object (`prevState`) that stores the ID of the previous `snapTargetBlock` and `snapTargetInline` elements.

In the event handler function, we use `if` statements to test whether:

- The `prevState.snapTargetBlock` ID is equal to the ID of the current `event.snapTargetBlock` element.
- The `prevState.snapTargetInline` ID is equal to the ID of the current `event.snapTargetInline` element.

If the values are different, it means that the scroller has been scrolled in that direction (block or inline), and we log a message to console to indicate this. In a real example, you'd likely style the snapped element in some way to indicate that it has been snapped to.

> We then update the values of `prevState.snapTargetBlock` and `prevState.snapTargetInline`, ready for the next time the event handler is run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then update the values of `prevState.snapTargetBlock` and `prevState.snapTargetInline` for the next time the event handler is run.
```

Author: I'm not sure about this one. I've had a think, and ended up updating it to:

> We then update the values of `prevState.snapTargetBlock` and `prevState.snapTargetInline` ready for when the event handler next runs.

```html
<main></main>
```

### CSS

```css hidden
* {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

html {
  height: 100%;
}

body {
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
  height: inherit;
}

h2 {
  font-size: 1rem;
  letter-spacing: 1px;
}

section {
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  border-radius: 5px;
  background: #eee;
  box-shadow:
    inset 1px 1px 4px rgb(255 255 255 / 0.5),
    inset -1px -1px 4px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  width: 150px;
  height: 150px;

  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
}
```

In the CSS, we start off by giving the `<main>` element a chunky black {{cssxref("border")}} and a fixed {{cssxref("width")}} and {{cssxref("height")}}. We set its {{cssxref("overflow")}} value to `scroll` so overflowing content will be hidden and can be scrolled to, and set {{cssxref("scroll-snap-type")}} to `block mandatory` so that snap targets in the block direction only will always be snapped to.

```css
main {
  border: 3px solid black;
  width: 250px;
  height: 450px;
  overflow: scroll;
  scroll-snap-type: block mandatory;
}
```

> Each `<section>` element is given a {{cssxref("margin")}} of `50px` to separate out the `<section>` elements and make the scroll snapping behavior a bit easier to experience. We then set {{cssxref("scroll-snap-align")}} to `center`, to specify that we want to snap to the center of each snap target. Finally, we apply a {{cssxref("transition")}} to smoothly animate to and from the style changes applied when a snap target selection has been made or is pending.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each `<section>` element is given a {{cssxref("margin")}} of `50px` to separate out the `<section>` elements and make the scroll snapping behavior a bit more apparent. We then set {{cssxref("scroll-snap-align")}} to `center`, to specify that we want to snap to the center of each snap target. Finally, we apply a {{cssxref("transition")}} to smoothly animate to and from the style changes applied when a snap target selection has been made or is pending.
```

Author: Updated. I got rid of "a bit" too.

```css
section {
  margin: 50px auto;
  scroll-snap-align: center;
  transition: 0.5s ease;
}
```

The style changes mentioned above will be applied through classes applied to the `<section>` elements via JavaScript. The `select-section` class will be applied to signify a selection — this set a purple background and white text color. The `pending` class will be applied to signify a pending snap target selection — this colors the target selection's background a darker gray.

```css
.pending {
  background-color: #ccc;
}

.select-section {
  background: purple;
  color: white;
}
```

### JavaScript

> In the JavaScript, we start by grabbing a reference to the `<main>` element and defining the number of `<section>` elements to generate (21), and a variable to begin counting from. We then use a [`while`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/while) loop to generate the `<section>` elements, giving each one a child [`h2`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/Heading_Elements) with text that reads `Section` plus the current value of `n`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the JavaScript, we start by grabbing a reference to the `<main>` element and defining the number of `<section>` elements to generate and a variable to begin counting from. We then use a [`while`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/while) loop to generate the `<section>` elements, giving each one a child [`h2`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/Heading_Elements) with text that reads `Section` plus the current value of `n`.
```

Reviewer: or, "generate (in this case, 21) and...". No comma needed before the "and"

Author: yeah, that works nicely. Updated.

const sectionCount = 21;
let n = 1;

while (n <= sectionCount) {
  mainElem.innerHTML += `
    <section>
      <h2>Section ${n}</h2>
    </section>
  `;
  n++;
}
```

Now on to the {{domxref("Element/scrollsnapchanging_event", "scrollsnapchanging")}} event handler function. When a child of the `<main>` element (i.e. any `<section>` element) becomes a pending snap target selection, we:

1. Check to see if an element previously had the `pending` class applied and, if so, remove it. This is so that only the current pending target is given the `pending` class and colored darker gray. We don't want previously-pending targets that are no longer pending to keep the styling.
2. Give the element referenced by the {{domxref("SnapEvent.snapTargetBlock", "snapTargetBlock")}} property (which will be one of the `<section>` elements) the `pending` class so it turns a darker gray.

```js
mainElem.addEventListener("scrollsnapchanging", (event) => {
  const previousPending = document.querySelector(".pending");
  if (previousPending) {
    previousPending.classList.remove("pending");
  }

  event.snapTargetBlock.classList.add("pending");
});
```

> [!NOTE]

> > We don't need to worry about the `snapTargetInline` event object property for this demo — we are only scrolling vertically and the demo is using a horizontal writing mode, therefore only the `snapTargetBlock` value will change. `snapTargetInline` will always return `null`.

Author: updated

2. Applies the `select-section` class to the `<section>` element referenced in the `snapTargetBlock` property so that the snap target that was just selected will have the selection animation applied to it.

```js
mainElem.addEventListener("scrollsnapchange", (event) => {
  const currentlySnapped = document.querySelector(".select-section");
  if (currentlySnapped) {
    currentlySnapped.classList.remove("select-section");
  }

  event.snapTargetBlock.classList.add("select-section");
});
```

### Result

Try scrolling up and down the scroll container and observing the behavior described above:

{{ EmbedLiveSample("One-dimensional scroller example", "100%", "500") }}

## Two-dimensional scroller example

This example is similar to the previous one, except that it features a horizontally- _and_ vertically-scrolling {{htmlelement("main")}} element containing multiple light gray {{htmlelement("section")}} elements, which are all snap targets.

The HTML for the example is the same as for the previous example — a single `<main>` element.

```html hidden
<main></main>
```

### CSS

> ```css hidden

Reviewer: optional, but if you encase all the hidden css in a layer:

```css
@layer {
  /* put hidden css here */
  }
  
  ```
You can then move the layer / hidden CSS to after the visible css in the guide.

That ways, if and when the reader hits "play", the relevant CSS will be at the top

Author: This is not a habit I want to get into. I don't think it is that big a deal making a web developer search through a small stylesheet, and it complicates the CSS unnecessarily.

We first define the classes that will be applied to signal that a snap target selection has been made or is pending. The `select-section` and `deselect-section` classes will apply keyframe animations to signify a selection or deselection. The `pending` class will be applied to signify a pending snap target selection (it applies a darker gray background to the selection, as in the previous example).

The {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animate from a gray background and black (default) text color to a purple background and white text color, and back again, respectively. The latter animation is somewhat different from the first one — it also uses {{cssxref("opacity")}} to create a fade out/fade in effect.

```css
.select-section {
  animation: select 0.8s ease forwards;
}

.deselect-section {
  animation: deselect 0.8s ease forwards;
}

.pending {
  background-color: #ccc;
}

@keyframes select {
  from {
    background: #eee;
    color: black;
  }

  to {
    background: purple;
    color: white;
  }
}

@keyframes deselect {
  0% {
    background: purple;
    color: white;
    opacity: 1;
  }

  80% {
    background: #eee;
    color: black;

>     opacity: 0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    opacity: 0.1;
```
let's not fully hide it.

Author: I've changed it, but I don't really see why you are suggesting this change — it makes very little difference to the look and feel. What si your reasoning here?

Reviewer: I don't want to suggest to a dev that it's ever good practice to make content disappear (unless you actually want to end up on display none)

Author: Right, ok.

  }

  100% {
    background: #eee;
    color: black;
    opacity: 1;
  }
}
```

### JavaScript

> In the JavaScript, we start off in the same way as with the previous example, except that this time we generate 49 `<section>` elements, and we give each one an ID of `s` plus the current value of `n` to help track them later on. With the grid layout we specified above, this gives us seven columns of seven `<section>`s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the JavaScript, we start off in the same way as with the previous example, except that this time we generate 49 `<section>` elements, and we give each one an ID of `s` plus the current value of `n` to help track them later on. With the grid layout we specified above, we will have seven columns of seven `<section>`s.
```
just to make it not sound like the js is giving us the grid

Author: updated

---
title: Using scroll snap events
slug: Web/CSS/CSS_scroll_snap/Using_scroll_snap_events
page-type: guide
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The [CSS Scroll Snap Module Level 2](drafts.csswg.org/css-scroll-snap-2) specification defines **scroll snap events**: {{domxref("Element/scrollsnapchanging_event", "scrollsnapchanging")}} and {{domxref("Element/scrollsnapchange_event", "scrollsnapchange")}}. These make it easy to run JavaScript in response to the browser determining that a new snap target is pending, and when a new snap target is selected, respectively.

Author: Good call. I've basically used your wording, except that I've cut down the two mentions of (scroll) snap target into one.

> This article provides a guide to using these events, along with complete examples.

Author: updated

## Events overview

> The two events are set on a scrolling container that contains potential scroll snap targets, and are as follows:

Author: updated

> - The {{domxref("Element/scrollsnapchanging_event", "scrollsnapchanging")}} event is fired when the browser determines that a new scroll snap target is pending (i.e., it will be selected when the current scroll gesture ends). Specifically, this event fires during a scrolling gesture, each time the user moves over a potential new snap target. `scrollsnapchanging` can therefore fire multiple times for each scrolling gesture. However, `scrollsnapchanging` does not fire on all potential snap targets for a scrolling gesture that moves over multiple snap targets — just the last target that the snapping will potentially rest on.

Author: updated

> - The {{domxref("Element/scrollsnapchange_event", "scrollsnapchange")}} event is fired at the end of a scrolling operation when a new scroll snap target is selected. Specifically, this event fires when a scrolling gesture is completed, but only if a new snap target is selected. Also note that it fires just before the {{domxref("Element/scrollend_event", "scrollend")}} event fires.

Author: updated

Let's look at an example that shows the two events in action (you'll see how this is built later on in the article):

{{ EmbedLiveSample("One-dimensional scroller example", "100%", "500") }}

Have a go at scrolling up and down the list of boxes:

> - Try slowly scrolling the container up and down, without releasing the scrolling gesture, For example, drag your finger(s) on a touch screen device or trackpad, or hold down the mouse button on the scroll bar and move the mouse. You should see the boxes you move over turn a darker gray color, and then return to normal as you move away from them again. This is the `scrollsnapchanging` event in action.

Author: updated, but I've not included "; we are toggling a background transition when the event is fired" — this isn't a transition, it is just a background color change, and I don't think this needs to be explained here.

- Now try releasing the scrolling gesture; the nearest box to your scrolling position should animate to a purple color, with white text. This is due to code run in response to the `scrollsnapchange` event firing.

> - Last of all, try scrolling fast, for example by flicking your finger hard on the screen, to scroll past several potential targets before starting to come to rest near a target further down the scroll container. You should only see one `scrollsnapchanging` event fire as the scrolling starts to slow, before the `scrollsnapchange` event then fires and the selected snap target turns purple.

Author: updated

## The `SnapEvent` event object

> Both of the above events share the same event object: {{domxref("SnapEvent")}}. This has two distinct properties that are key to how scroll snap events work:

Author: updated somewhat. I ended up with:

> Both of the above events share the {{domxref("SnapEvent")}} event object. This has two properties that are key to how scroll snap events work:

Splitting into two sentences feels cleaner to read, to me.

- {{domxref("SnapEvent.snapTargetBlock", "snapTargetBlock")}} returns a reference to the element snapped to in the block direction when the event fired.

> - {{domxref("SnapEvent.snapTargetInline", "snapTargetInline")}} returns a reference to the element snapped to in the inline direction when the event fired.

Author: updated

We then update the values of `prevState.snapTargetBlock` and `prevState.snapTargetInline`, ready for the next time the event handler is run.

For the remainder of this article, we'll look at a couple of complete scroll snap event examples, which you can play with in the live rendered versions at the end of each section.

## One-dimensional scroller example

This example features a vertically-scrolling {{htmlelement("main")}} element containing multiple light gray {{htmlelement("section")}} elements, which are all scroll snap targets. When a new snap target is pending, it will turn a darker shade of gray. When a new snap target is selected, it will smoothly animate to purple with white text. If a different snap target was previously selected, it will smoothly animate back to gray with black text.

### HTML

The HTML for the example is a single `<main>` element. We will add the `<section>` elements dynamically with JavaScript later on, to save on page space.

```html
<main></main>

> ```

Author: I disagree; see above.

```css
.select-section {
  animation: select 0.6s ease forwards;
}

.deselect-section {
  animation: deselect 0.6s ease forwards;
}

@keyframes select {
  from {
    background: #eee;
    color: black;
  }

  to {
    background: purple;
    color: white;
  }
}

@keyframes deselect {
  from {
    background: purple;
    color: white;
  }

  to {
    background: #eee;
    color: black;
  }
}

.pending {
  background-color: #ccc;
}
```

### JavaScript

In the JavaScript, we start by grabbing a reference to the `<main>` element and defining the number of `<section>` elements to generate (21), and a variable to begin counting from. We then use a [`while`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/while) loop to generate the `<section>` elements, giving each one an ID of `s` plus the current value of `n`, and a child [`h2`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/Heading_Elements) with text that reads `Section` plus the current value of `n`.

```js
const mainElem = document.querySelector("main");
const sectionCount = 21;
let n = 1;

while (n <= sectionCount) {
  mainElem.innerHTML += `
    <section id="s${n}">
      <h2>Section ${n}</h2>
    </section>
  `;
  n++;
}

> ```

Author: I don't agree with this. If I used static HTML, I'd still have to explain the structure of the `<section>` elements inside the HTML section, otherwise, the example wouldn't make sense. And then I'd have to add all 21 elements into the HTML, or find a way of hiding the full amount and just showing a single example, which would be awkward.

I'd rather keep it like this. It's not exactly a weird practice — people generate multiple HTML components all the time using frameworks.

> ```

Reviewer: If this were in the JS / API section, i would not have suggested it. But in the CSS docs we avoid the `el.style.x="y"` and prefer class changes (keeping CSS out of the JS), and use static HTML. I was thinking that perhaps this guide is better served in the API docs anyhow. What do you think?

> ```

Author: Couple of things:

1. I'm not doing any `el.style.x="y"` in these examples. It is all class-based.
2. If I put it in the API docs, where would it go? It is part of the CSS Scroll Snap spec.

> ```

Author: The code is a bit shorter, but I don't think it is vastly simpler to explain. I also don't want to get rid of all my styling. I'm happy to hide the stuff that doesn't need explaining.

Tell you what, I will use a transition on the first example, like you've done, but I want to keep the animation on the second example, as it is useful to show how that could be handled. In more complex cases, people might want to use an animation.
